Move plugins readme to the docs webpage (#261)
bloomberg/blazingmq: docs/docs/features/plugins.md

---
layout: default
title: Plugins
parent: Features
nav_order: 9
---

# Plugins
{: .no_toc }

* toc
{:toc}

## Prometheus plugin

### Overview
This plugin gathers BlazingMQ broker statistic and sends it to [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/) monitoring system. Both `push` and `pool` modes of interaction with Prometheus are supported.

### Configuration
By default, plugin is disabled. To enable and configure it, edit `bmqbrkcfg.json` file as follows:

1. Enable plugin and provide path to plugin library
   ```json
   "appConfig": {
       ...
       "plugins": {
           "libraries": ["<path-to-prometheus-plugin-library-folder>"],
           "enabled": ["PrometheusStatConsumer"]
       }
   }
   ```

2. Provide plugin configuration
   ```json
   "appConfig": {
       "stats": {

>            "snapshotInterval": 1,

Reviewer: Does this value correspond to the [`publishInterval()`](https://github.com/bloomberg/blazingmq/blob/2e158c6da196e2845ece26fdb0afd21ba97bf7f7/src/groups/mqb/mqbplug/mqbplug_statconsumer.h#L88) value from `mqbplug::StatConsumer`? If so, it should be named as such.

Author: Both parameters are described [below](https://github.com/bloomberg/blazingmq/pull/261/files#diff-33465695957b579208e81137ec192d48c8e6ff746f48a36fd7a7d96179d64908R60-R61). In a few words, `snapshotInterval` is the interval betwen two secuential updates of metrics by the **broker**. `publishInterval` is the interval between sending metrics to a monitoring system by the **plugin**. I've added some information below

           "appIdPostingDomains": ["fanout-domain-1-name", "fanout-domain-2-name"],
           "plugins": [
               ...
               {
                   "name": "PrometheusStatConsumer",
                   "publishInterval": 10,
                   "prometheusSpecific": {
                       "host": "localhost",
                       "port": 9091,
                       "mode": "E_PUSH"    
                   }
               }
           ],
           ...
       }
   }
   ```

where

1. Common plugins configuration

   - `snapshotInterval`: represents how often stats are computed by broker
     internally, in seconds (typically every 1s);
   - [OPTIONAL] `appIdPostingDomains`: used for troubleshooting, represents
     the list of *fanout* mode domains for which *applicationId* tag will be
     applied on `queue.confirm_time_max` and `queue.queue_time_max` metrics.
     It can be *extremely* useful to detect slow responding consumer by

>      *application ID*. If this setting is omitted/empty, or domain name not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     *applicationId*. If this setting is omitted/empty, or domain name not
```

   - Run Prometheus (in docker);
   - Run broker with local cluster and enabled Prometheus plugin in sandbox (temp folder);
   - Put several messages into different queues;
   - Request metrics from Prometheus and compare them with expected metric values.

Prerequisites:
1. bmqbroker, bmqtool and prometheus plugin library should be built;
2. Python3 should be installed;
3. Docker should be installed, user launching the test script must be included into the group 'docker'.
```bash
Usage: ./src/plugins/prometheus/tests/prometheus_prometheusstatconsumer_test.py [-h] -p PATH
options:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -p PATH, --path PATH  path to BlazingMQ build folder, e.g. './build/blazingmq'
```

### Labels
The following labels may be used by each metric, whenever applicable. Refer to each individual metric documentation for restrictions which may apply.

|Label Name|Description|
|----------|-----------|
|Instance|instance id of the broker (e.g. A), or 'default'|
|Cluster|name of the cluster (e.g. bmqc01/A)|
|Domain|name of the domain (e.g. my.domain)|
|Tier|value of the tier (e.g. pd)|
|Queue|name of the queue (e.g. my_queue)|

> |Role|role of the broker with regard to this queue (possible values are 'PRIMARY', 'PROXY', 'REPLICA', 'MEMBER')|

Reviewer: A 'MEMBER' must be a 'PRIMARY' or a 'REPLICA'. Do we even need the 'MEMBER' role?

Author: No, we don't need it. We have only 3 roles now: 'PRIMARY', 'PROXY' and 'REPLICA'. It can also be 'UNKNOWN' if the queue hasn't been configured yet. However 'UNKNOWN' can't be posted as a tag. I think we should also update the GUTS docomentation on Tutty since this information has been taken from there

Reviewer: Could you please also make a PR to update Tutti?

Reviewer: Sure, please update in that PR

|RemoteHost|name of the 'upstream' node or '_none_'|
|AppId|application ID (e.g. my_app), applicable only in fanout mode, if feature is configured, see appIdPostingDomains setting|

### Available BlazingMQ metrics

> This section lists all the metrics reported to Prometheus by BMQ brokers. Note that any metric whose value is 0 is not published. The only exception to this rule is queue.heartbeat which is always published.

Reviewer: `BMQ` -> `BlazingMQ`

In this section, report interval refers to how often stats are being published in `push` mode (typically every 30s) and snapshot represents how often stats are computed internally (typically every 1s).

> Note that all metrics published to Prometheus are also dumped by BMQ broker on the local machine in a file, which is located at either of these two locations:

Reviewer: `BMQ` -> `BlazingMQ`

Reviewer: You mentioned two locations, but only listed one.

    <broker_path>/localBMQ/logs/stat.*

These stat files can come in handy when Prometheus is unavailable or when metrics during certain time interval are missing from Prometheus for some reason.

### System metrics

> System metrics represent BMQ broker's overall operating system metrics. Every broker reports them, with 'Instance' label which is always set.

Reviewer: `BMQ` -> `BlazingMQ`
